

<https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/certifications/exams/az-900/>

# Describe cloud computing

- Define cloud computing.
- Describe the shared responsibility model.
- Define cloud models, including public, private, and hybrid.
- Identify appropriate use cases for each cloud model.
- Describe the consumption-based model.
- Compare cloud pricing models.

# Describe the benefits of using cloud services

- Describe the benefits of high availability and scalability in the cloud.
- Describe the benefits of reliability and predictability in the cloud.
- Describe the benefits of security and governance in the cloud.
- Describe the benefits of manageability in the cloud.

# Describe cloud service types

- Describe infrastructure as a service (IaaS).
- Describe platform as a service (PaaS).
- Describe software as a service (SaaS).
- Identify appropriate use cases for each cloud service (IaaS, PaaS, SaaS).

# Describe the core architectural components of Azure 

- Describe Azure regions, region pairs, and sovereign regions.
- Describe Availability Zones.
- Describe Azure datacenters.
- Describe Azure resources and Resource Groups.
- Describe subscriptions.
- Describe management groups.
- Describe the hierarchy of resource groups, subscriptions, and management groups.

# Describe Azure compute and networking services

- Compare compute types, including container instances, virtual machines, and functions.
- Describe virtual machine options, including virtual machines (VMs), virtual machine scale sets, virtual machine availability sets, and Azure Virtual Desktop.
- Describe resources required for virtual machines.
- Describe application hosting options, including Azure Web Apps, containers, and virtual machines.
- Describe virtual networking, including the purpose of Azure Virtual Networks, Azure virtual subnets, peering, Azure DNS, VPN Gateway, and ExpressRoute.
- Define public and private endpoints.

# Describe Azure storage services

- Compare Azure storage services.
- Describe storage tiers.
- Describe redundancy options.
- Describe storage account options and storage types.
- Identify options for moving files, including AzCopy, Azure Storage Explorer, and Azure File Sync.
- Describe migration options, including Azure Migrate and Azure Data Box.

# Describe Azure identity, access, and security

- Describe directory services in Azure, including Azure Active Directory (AD) and Azure AD DS.
- Describe authentication methods in Azure, including single sign-on (SSO), multifactor authentication (MFA), and passwordless.
- Describe external identities and guest access in Azure.
- Describe Azure AD Conditional Access.
- Describe Azure Role Based Access Control (RBAC).
- Describe the concept of Zero Trust.
- Describe the purpose of the defense in depth model.
- Describe the purpose of Microsoft Defender for Cloud.

# Describe cost management in Azure

- Describe factors that can affect costs in Azure.
- Compare the Pricing calculator and Total Cost of Ownership (TCO) calculator.
- Describe Azure Cost Management Tool.
- Describe the purpose of tags.

# Describe features and tools in Azure for governance and compliance

- Describe the purpose of Azure Blueprints
- Describe the purpose of Azure Policy
- Describe the purpose of resource locks
- Describe the purpose of the Service Trust portal


# Describe features and tools for managing and deploying Azure resources

- Describe Azure portal
- Describe Azure Cloud Shell, including Azure CLI and Azure PowerShell
- Describe the purpose of Azure Arc
- Describe Azure Resource Manager (ARM) and Azure ARM templates

# Describe monitoring tools in Azure

- Describe the purpose of Azure Advisor
- Describe Azure Service Health
- Describe Azure Monitor, including Azure Log Analytics, Azure Monitor Alerts, and Application Insights
